---
title: "Convection and clouds under different planetary gravities simulated by a small-domain cloud-resolving model"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Liu2023
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-02-01
venue: 'The Astrophysical Journal'
#slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://jiachenliu-atmos.github.io/files/Liu_2023_ApJ_944_45.pdf'
#citation: 'Liu, J. et al. (2023), Convection and clouds under different planetary gravities simulated by a small-domain cloud-resolving model, The Astrophysical Journal, 944(1), p. 45.'
---

[Journal](https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/aca965)


Abstract: In this study, we employ a cloud-resolving model to investigate how gravity inﬂuences convection and clouds in a small-domain (96 × 96 km) radiative–convective equilibrium. Our experiments are performed with a horizontal grid spacing of 1 km, which can resolve large (>1 km2) convective cells. We ﬁnd that under a given stellar ﬂux, sea surface temperature increases with decreasing gravity. This is because a lower-gravity planet has larger water vapor content and more clouds, resulting in a larger clear-sky greenhouse effect and a stronger cloud warming effect in the small domain. By increasing stellar ﬂux under different gravity values, we ﬁnd that the convection shifts from a quasi-steady state to an oscillatory state. In the oscillatory state, there are convection cycles with a period of several days, comprised of a short wet phase with intense surface precipitation and a dry phase with no surface precipitation. When convection shifts to the oscillatory state, the water vapor content and high-level cloud fraction increase substantially, resulting in rapid warming. After the transition to the oscillatory state, the cloud net positive radiative effect decreases with increasing stellar ﬂux, which indicates a stabilizing climate effect. In the quasi-steady state, the atmospheric absorption features of CO2 are more detectable on lower-gravity planets because of their larger atmospheric heights. While in the oscillatory state, the high-level clouds mute almost all of the absorption features, making the atmospheric components hard to characterize.


